# Angular 4: March 2017

Yes, you heard that correctly, Angular 4 will be released in March of 2017. Don't freak out. It's not as bad as you think. The keynote delivered today by Igor Minar outlined the reason for this update, but allow me to give a super brief explanation for this seemingly huge jump: It's just SemVer. Nothing crazy is actually coming. Yes, new things will coming down the pike, but things that you are working on that use Angular 2 won't suddenly break all over the place in March, like they did between Angular 1 and 2. 

Igor explains that the Angular team wants their release cycle to follow SemVer as strictly as possible. As such, they want to have a routine of weekly patches, monthly minor updates, and major updates every 6 months. **_This is how the Angular release cycle already works_**. The Angular team has stuck to this schedule for Angular 2 for the most part. Angular 2.0 was released in September, 2.1 in October, and 2.2 in November. But in accordance with SemVer, they understand that they might have a breaking change coming soon. Igor expresses the complexity of this:  "What exactly is a breaking change"? It could be as simple as a minor syntax issue, or it could be something absolutely major. However, they believe that their changes that they have planned for March will actually cause **_some_** breaking changes.

That being said, the keynote was clearly delivered with the goal of trying to ease the minds of developers. The Angular team is dedicating themselves to ensuring that components that are being written now, aren't going to break. While the jump to a new major release seems huge when compared to the past versions, they aren't really comparable. Minor versions of Angular 1.x had breaking changes all the time. They want to stop that in the future. 

## But why 3 and not 4?

Well, the keynote touched on this, but didn't give a *huge* explanation. Basically, Angular is made out of several parts that are supposed to have corresponding versions. These versions *should* match each other, and the version of Angular they are meant for. However, the Angular router, for various reasons, had to be bumped to v3.3 for the Angular 2.3 release. And well... that is less than ideal. So instead of bumping everything to 3 *except* the router, they are just going to jump everything to 4. What this is really saying, however, is that Angular version number will mean less in the future. We won't refer to this as Angular 4, it will just be "Angular". And when talking about the specific version, it will be 4.x. As a result, they hope that this will stop the notion that breaking changes means "new framework", like it did between Angular 1 and 2. 

In reality, they are basically saying that the new way they are going to do their versioning is the *right* way, and that everything in the past is the *wrong* way. Which, honestly, I agree with. If you take away the name of what they are calling this update, the numerical value, it really isn't any different than any other Angular update in the past. So, if you're a developer who has Angular 2 code, breath easy, its not the end of the world.